# PrimaryCalculus â€” Software for Second Study

This software is writen as part of my research on how to teach calculus in
primary education, which I call primary calculus (see also
http://primarycalculus.org ). The software is a microworld for students to
study and explore the context of filling glasses with water. They can add
different glasses to the microworld and fill them, coordinating volume,
height, and time, allowing them to start exploring the rate of change of the water
level in the glass. By automatically drawing a graph or bar chart, they can
explore rate of change mathematically without having to know and master
difficult mathematical concepts like algebra, function, and limit.

This software is a prototype that I used to perform a small scale
instructional experiment (see http://primarycalculus.org/tue-experiment/ ) to
find out how fifth grade students (11 years old) develop their reasoning about
rate of change in the context of filling glasses. In the primary school
curriculum, rate of change is introduced in the context of motion and treated
as a ratio of distance and time only (at least this is the case in my locale).
However, by using computerized thinking tools like this software, I believe
primary school students are able to mathematize more complex topics like rate
of change.

## Acknowledgements

I built this software on top of bootstrap, jquery, raphael.js, and d3.js.
Furthermore, I used browserify, coffeescript, ruby, and vim.

## Licence

The software is licenced under the MIT licence:

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 HT de Beer (primarycalculus.org)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
